[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> So one of the most common
ways tapping probably is used
is for stress.
So we've talked about what a
profound impact tapping can
actually have on the
stress hormone, cortisol,
in the body, and not only
things like DNA changes,
but certainly mood changes.
We know stress is
prevalent worldwide,
so not only in our well-being
studies in Australia,
but the US and the UK.
Consistently, what
shows up is people
have stress in lots of
areas and domains of life,
financial stress being one
of the highest, followed
by relationship stress.
What's probably
even more concerning
is teenage studies
that have actually
been done across the world
showing that teenagers are
becoming younger and expressing
really high percentages of how
much stress they're
coping with in their life,
and not, perhaps, the
typical things like,
my parents want me to get
a good grade academically,
but things like
social media stress
and being available
24 hours a day.
By being connected through
what we have perceived
as fabulous technology, it's
having such an impact on them
that their cortisol levels are
indeed high 24 hours a day.
So to have a tool
that's self applied,
such as tapping, for
something as simple as stress,
anxiety, any of that type
of thing, is fabulous.
So let's get into it.
Let's do a tapping
session now on stress.
Now, the first thing we
would do is typically
think about, either currently
in your life at the moment,
do you have any stress?
Is there something you
feel stressed about?
And maybe a different word
to describe that for you.
It could be a feeling
of worry or anxiousness.
If there isn't
something currently,
do you have something
recently in your life
that you could ponder
and think about that
did cause you stress?
So either way works,
in the present moment,
or, indeed, thinking
back to that time.
Normally, what we would
do is ask you to tune in
and see if you can
feel it physically
anywhere in your body.
If you do, you can focus
on that as we tap as well.
But, of course, if you
don't, it's just a thought.
That's all right as well.
Before we start with
our set-up statement,
we would always give
it a number out of 10.
So that subjective unit
of stress rating scale
allows us to work
out, is this shifting,
is this actually
having an improvement?
0 represents, I'm completely
calm, I don't have any stress.
But 10 would represent,
this is the most distress
I've ever felt in my life.
Now, you can guess
the number out
of 10 thinking about
your current moment
in life that causes you
stress or the previous one
that you're thinking
about recently.
So how much stress did
you feel back then?
So giving that a
number out of 10
and guessing that internally.
Of course, then, we would start
with our set-up statement.
And feel free to
tap along with me.
I will use generic words.
But, really, tapping works best
with your specific description.
So if the word
"stressed" isn't quite
right to describe
how you feel, or even
a sensation in
your body, you are
absolutely free to
change that to what it is
that describes it best for you.
But let's go,
repeating after me.
Even though I feel really
stressed about what
happened, I accept
this is how I felt.
Even though I still feel
stressed about what happened,
I accept this is how I feel.
Even though I have this
stress in my mind and body
about what happened,
I accept how I feel.
Now, let's come
up to the eyebrow
point there and just
say one or two words
that best describe how you feel.
This stress about that time.
Side of the eye.
This stress about what happened.
Under the eye.
My stress.
Under the nose.
This stress I still feel.
On the chin.
This stress.
Under the collarbone point.
This stressed feeling.
Under the arm.
My stressed feeling.
And top of the head.
This feeling of stress.
Now, take a deep breath
just for a moment.
And because we're
being quite mindful,
the best way to test
that tapping is working
is to think about, what is
it that I was worried about?
Where's my stress feeling now?
So you can give it a
number out of 10 now.
And it is a good opportunity
for me to remind you that,
if, sometimes, when we
first guessed our number out
of 10, after the first
round of tapping,
it appears to increase.
So sometimes, people may
guess a 7 to begin with.
But then after one round or two
rounds of tapping, it's an 8,
often, what that
will indicate is
that was your true
rating in the beginning.
And perhaps you kind of
undercut it a little bit.
So all it means is,
tapping's working.
You've actually tuned in.
Use that as your starting point.
So has it stayed the same?
Has it increased?
Or has it decreased?
What number?
Just guess a number out of 10.
Can you feel it in your body?
Is anything different
happening there?
Is there any other word
other than "stress" that you
could use to describe it.
Let's come back to
the eyebrow and do
another round of tapping.
This stressed feeling
about what happened.
My stressed feeling.
I felt really stressed.
Under the nose.
I felt sorry stressed.
On the chin.
This stressed
feeling in my body.
Under the collarbone.
This stressed feeling.
Under the arm.
This stress and overwhelm.
And top of the head.
This feeling of stress.
Now, take a deep breath.
Check in physically.
If you were feeling it
anywhere in your body,
perhaps there was some level
of tension or tightness,
is there a difference there?
If you're thinking about
a recent or current time,
how do you feel about it now?
Is there anything happening
at a cognitive level?
Are you thinking slightly
differently about that?
Is anything else coming to mind?
If you do find a different
feeling presents itself,
you're free to move to
that feeling instead.
Sometimes, emotions are
stacked as layers within us.
And when we tap
on the first one,
we become aware
of the second one.
And it's OK to start again
and tap on that next feeling.
So for example, someone
may feel stressed,
but then, after a couple
of rounds of tapping,
start to feel some anger.
They would just
turn their attention
to tapping on the anger
feeling instead, again,
checking in with wherever
it is or whatever
it is that's causing that
feeling for you at the moment.
Let's do one more
round of tapping
where we start to give
our mind the idea that we
might be able to let this go.
So back to our eyebrow
point and tapping.
This stress that I had--
side of the eye--
it's decreasing now.
Under the eye.
This stress that I had--
under the nose-- is
starting to dissipate.
On the chin point.
This stress that I had--
on the collarbone--
is going down.
Under the arm.
This stress about that time--
top of the head--
is leaving me now.
Take a deep breath.
And then let it go.
And just see how that feels now.
Give it a number out of 10.
Certainly, if you were
not down near a 0 or a 1,
you would repeat this process.
You can see tapping doesn't
take very long, only
a minute or two per round.
And it is just about
acknowledging, where am I at,
where's my body at,
what's happening?
Any other feelings that
present themselves as you go,
of course, can be
substituted for the words
that you're saying.
The most important thing
here is to be specific.
Use your exact words.
Substitute those for
anything that I'm
saying so that you get the
full benefit of how that feels
and know that, even
though an hour of tapping
shows a 43% reduction in
cortisol, 5 minutes of tapping,
just as a daily
habit, can have such
a profound and roll-on
effect that, of course,
your cortisol levels, and
your DNA, and your physiology
will be affected.
We do like to suggest to
people that perhaps you tie
your tapping once a day to
something you already do.
And brushing teeth
always comes to mind.
So if brushing teeth every
day, morning or night,
also becomes tapping
time, then you'll
get an extra five minutes of
tapping it in there every day
that will, over time, have
a profound effect on lots
and lots of different
areas in your life.
So happy tapping, everybody.
Keep it going.
And I hope those stress
levels keep declining.